backend-users.md, before:

# Backend Users & Permissions

- [Backend user helper](#backend-auth-facade)
- [Registering permissions](#permission-registration)
- [Restricting access to back-end pages](#page-access)
- [Restricting access to features](#features)

The user management for the back-end includes features like roles, groups, permissions, password resets and sign-in throttling. Plugins can also register permissions that control access to the features in the back-end.

<a name="backend-auth-facade"></a>
## Backend user helper

The global `BackendAuth` facade can be used for managing administrative users, which primarily inherits the `October\Rain\Auth\Manager` class. To register a new administrator user account, use the `BackendAuth::register` method.

    $user = BackendAuth::register([
        'name' => 'Some User',
        'login' => 'someuser',
        'email' => 'some@website.tld',
        'password' => 'changeme',
        'password_confirmation' => 'changeme'
    ]);

The `BackendAuth::check` method is a quick way to check if the user is signed in. To return the user model that is signed in, use `BackendAuth::getUser` instead. Additionally, the active user will be available as `$this->user` inside any [backend controller](../backend/controllers-ajax).

    // Returns true if signed in.
    $loggedIn = BackendAuth::check();

    // Returns the signed in user
    $user = BackendAuth::getUser();

    // Returns the signed in user from a controller
    $user = $this->user;

You may look up a user by their login name using the `BackendAuth::findUserByLogin` method.

    $user = BackendAuth::findUserByLogin('someuser');

You may authenticate a user by providing their login and password with `BackendAuth::authenticate`. You can also authenticate as a user simply by passing the `Backend\Models\User` model along with `BackendAuth::login`.

    // Authenticate user by credentials
    $user = BackendAuth::authenticate([
        'login' => post('login'),
        'password' => post('password')
    ]);

    // Sign in as a specific user
    BackendAuth::login($user);

<a name="permission-registration"></a>
## Registering permissions

Plugins can register back-end user permissions by overriding the `registerPermissions` method inside the [Plugin registration class](../plugin/registration#registration-file). The permissions are defined as an array with keys corresponding the permission keys and values corresponding the permission descriptions. The permission keys consist of the author name, the plugin name and the feature name. Here is an example code:

    acme.blog.access_categories

The next example shows how to register back-end permission items. Permissions are defined with a permission key and description. In the back-end permission management user interface permissions are displayed as a checkbox list. Back-end controllers can use permissions defined by plugins for restricting the user access to [pages](#page-access) or [features](#features).

    public function registerPermissions()
    {
        return [
            'acme.blog.access_posts' => [
                'label' => 'Manage the blog posts',
                'tab' => 'Blog',
                'order' => 200,
            ],
            // ...
        ];
    }

You may also specify a `roles` option as an array with each value as a role API code. When a role is created with this code, it becomes a system role that always grants this permission to users with that role. October ships with two system roles, using the codes: `publisher` and `developer`.

    public function registerPermissions()
    {
        return [
            'acme.blog.access_categories' => [
                'label' => 'Manage the blog categories',
                'tab' => 'Blog',
                'order' => 200,
                'roles' => ['developer']
            ]
            // ...
        ];
    }

<a name="page-access"></a>
## Restricting access to back-end pages

In a back-end controller class you can specify which permissions are required for access the pages provided by the controller. It's done with the `$requiredPermissions` controller's property. This property should contain an array of permission keys. If the user permissions match any permission from the list, the framework will let the user to see the controller pages.

    <?php namespace Acme\Blog\Controllers;

    use Backend\Classes\BackendController;

    class Posts extends BackendController
    {
        public $requiredPermissions = ['acme.blog.access_posts'];
    }

You can also use the **asterisk** symbol to indicate the "all permissions" condition. In the next example the controller pages are accessible for all users who has any permissions starting with the "acme.blog." string:

    public $requiredPermissions = ['acme.blog.*'];

<a name="features"></a>
## Restricting access to features

The back-end user model has methods that allow to determine whether the user has specific permissions. You can use this feature in order to limit the functionality of the back-end user interface. The permission methods supported by the back-end user are `hasPermission` and `hasAccess`. The both methods take two parameters: the permission key string (or an array of key strings) and an optional parameter indicating that all permissions listed with the first parameters are required.

The `hasAccess` method returns **true** for any permission if the user is an administrator. The `hasPermission` method is more strict. The following example shows how to use the methods in the controller code:

    if ($this->user->hasAccess('acme.blog.*')) {
        // ...
    }

    if ($this->user->hasPermission([
        'acme.blog.access_posts',
        'acme.blog.access_categories'
    ])) {
        // ...
    }

You can also use the methods in the back-end views for hiding user interface elements. The next examples demonstrates how you can hide a button on the Edit Category [back-end form](forms):

    <?php if ($this->user->hasAccess('acme.blog.delete_categories')): ?>
        <button
            type="button"
            class="oc-icon-trash-o btn-icon danger pull-right"
            data-request="onDelete"
            data-load-indicator="Deleting Category..."
            data-request-confirm="Do you really want to delete this category?">
        </button>
    <?php endif ?>

Commit message:

WIP documenting users and permissions system

backend-users.md, after:

# Backend Users & Permissions

- [Users and Permissions](#users-and-permissions)
- [Backend user helper](#backend-auth-facade)
- [Registering permissions](#permission-registration)
- [Restricting access to back-end pages](#page-access)
- [Restricting access to features](#features)

The user management for the back-end includes features like roles, groups, permissions, password resets and sign-in throttling. Plugins can also register permissions that control access to the features in the back-end.

<a name="users-and-permissions"></a>
## Users and Permissions

Access to all parts of an OctoberCMS instance is controlled by the Permissions system. At the lowest level, there are Administrators (users) and permissions. The `\Backend\Models\User` models are the containers that hold all the important information about a user. Permissions are string keys in the form of `vendor.plugin.permission_name` that are granted to users by either direct assignment on their Edit Administrator page or by inheritance through the user's Role.

Roles (`\Backend\Models\UserRole`) are groupings of permissions with a name and description used to identify the role. An Administrator can only have one role assigned to them at once. A Role could be assigned to multiple administrators. October ships with two system roles by default, `developer` and `publisher`. 

> **Note:** System roles (`developer`, `publisher`, any role with `is_system` = `true`) cannot have their permissions changed through the Backend, they are defined in code and any permissions attached to them are attached directly in code as well. 


<a name="backend-auth-facade"></a>
## Backend user helper

The global `BackendAuth` facade can be used for managing administrative users, which primarily inherits the `October\Rain\Auth\Manager` class. To register a new administrator user account, use the `BackendAuth::register` method.

    $user = BackendAuth::register([
        'name' => 'Some User',
        'login' => 'someuser',
        'email' => 'some@website.tld',
        'password' => 'changeme',
        'password_confirmation' => 'changeme'
    ]);

The `BackendAuth::check` method is a quick way to check if the user is signed in. To return the user model that is signed in, use `BackendAuth::getUser` instead. Additionally, the active user will be available as `$this->user` inside any [backend controller](../backend/controllers-ajax).

    // Returns true if signed in.
    $loggedIn = BackendAuth::check();

    // Returns the signed in user
    $user = BackendAuth::getUser();

    // Returns the signed in user from a controller
    $user = $this->user;

You may look up a user by their login name using the `BackendAuth::findUserByLogin` method.

    $user = BackendAuth::findUserByLogin('someuser');

You may authenticate a user by providing their login and password with `BackendAuth::authenticate`. You can also authenticate as a user simply by passing the `Backend\Models\User` model along with `BackendAuth::login`.

    // Authenticate user by credentials
    $user = BackendAuth::authenticate([
        'login' => post('login'),
        'password' => post('password')
    ]);

    // Sign in as a specific user
    BackendAuth::login($user);

<a name="permission-registration"></a>
## Registering permissions

Plugins can register back-end user permissions by overriding the `registerPermissions` method inside the [Plugin registration class](../plugin/registration#registration-file). The permissions are defined as an array with keys corresponding the permission keys and values corresponding the permission descriptions. The permission keys consist of the author name, the plugin name and the feature name. Here is an example code:

    acme.blog.access_categories

The next example shows how to register back-end permission items. Permissions are defined with a permission key and description. In the back-end permission management user interface permissions are displayed as a checkbox list. Back-end controllers can use permissions defined by plugins for restricting the user access to [pages](#page-access) or [features](#features).

    public function registerPermissions()
    {
        return [
            'acme.blog.access_posts' => [
                'label' => 'Manage the blog posts',
                'tab' => 'Blog',
                'order' => 200,
            ],
            // ...
        ];
    }

You may also specify a `roles` option as an array with each value as a role API code. When a role is created with this code, it becomes a system role that always grants this permission to users with that role. October ships with two system roles, using the codes: `publisher` and `developer`.

    public function registerPermissions()
    {
        return [
            'acme.blog.access_categories' => [
                'label' => 'Manage the blog categories',
                'tab' => 'Blog',
                'order' => 200,
                'roles' => ['developer']
            ]
            // ...
        ];
    }

<a name="page-access"></a>
## Restricting access to back-end pages

In a back-end controller class you can specify which permissions are required for access the pages provided by the controller. It's done with the `$requiredPermissions` controller's property. This property should contain an array of permission keys. If the user permissions match any permission from the list, the framework will let the user to see the controller pages.

    <?php namespace Acme\Blog\Controllers;

    use Backend\Classes\BackendController;

    class Posts extends BackendController
    {
        public $requiredPermissions = ['acme.blog.access_posts'];
    }

You can also use the **asterisk** symbol to indicate the "all permissions" condition. In the next example the controller pages are accessible for all users who has any permissions starting with the "acme.blog." string:

    public $requiredPermissions = ['acme.blog.*'];

<a name="features"></a>
## Restricting access to features

The back-end user model has methods that allow to determine whether the user has specific permissions. You can use this feature in order to limit the functionality of the back-end user interface. The permission methods supported by the back-end user are `hasPermission` and `hasAccess`. The both methods take two parameters: the permission key string (or an array of key strings) and an optional parameter indicating that all permissions listed with the first parameters are required.

The `hasAccess` method returns **true** for any permission if the user is an administrator. The `hasPermission` method is more strict. The following example shows how to use the methods in the controller code:

    if ($this->user->hasAccess('acme.blog.*')) {
        // ...
    }

    if ($this->user->hasPermission([
        'acme.blog.access_posts',
        'acme.blog.access_categories'
    ])) {
        // ...
    }

You can also use the methods in the back-end views for hiding user interface elements. The next examples demonstrates how you can hide a button on the Edit Category [back-end form](forms):

    <?php if ($this->user->hasAccess('acme.blog.delete_categories')): ?>
        <button
            type="button"
            class="oc-icon-trash-o btn-icon danger pull-right"
            data-request="onDelete"
            data-load-indicator="Deleting Category..."
            data-request-confirm="Do you really want to delete this category?">
        </button>
    <?php endif ?>
