console-scaffolding.md, before:

# Scaffolding commands

- [Scaffolding commands](#scaffolding-commands)
    - [Create a plugin](#scaffold-create-plugin)
    - [Create a component](#scaffold-create-component)
    - [Create a model](#scaffold-create-model)
    - [Create a back-end controller](#scaffold-create-controller)
    - [Create a form widget](#scaffold-create-formwidget)
    - [Create a console command](#scaffold-create-command)

<a name="scaffolding-commands"></a>
## Scaffolding commands

Use the scaffolding commands to speed up the development process.

<a name="scaffold-create-plugin"></a>
### Create a plugin

The `create:plugin` command generates a plugin folder and basic files for the plugin. The parameter specifies the author and plugin name.

    php artisan create:plugin Acme.Blog

<a name="scaffold-create-component"></a>
### Create a component

The `create:component` command creates a new component class and the default component view. The first parameter specifies the author and plugin name. The second parameter specifies the component class name.

    php artisan create:component Acme.Blog Post

<a name="scaffold-create-model"></a>
### Create a model

The `create:model` command generates the files needed for a new model. The first parameter specifies the author and plugin name. The second parameter specifies the model class name.

    php artisan create:model Acme.Blog Post

<a name="scaffold-create-controller"></a>
### Create a back-end controller

The `create:controller` command generates a controller, configuration and view files. The first parameter specifies the author and plugin name. The second parameter specifies the controller class name.

    php artisan create:controller Acme.Blog Posts

<a name="scaffold-create-formwidget"></a>
### Create a form widget

The `create:formwidget` command generates a back-end form widget, view and basic asset files. The first parameter specifies the author and plugin name. The second parameter specifies the form widget class name.

    php artisan create:formwidget Acme.Blog CategorySelector

<a name="scaffold-create-command"></a>
### Create a console command

The `create:command` command generates a [new console command](../console/development). The first parameter specifies the author and plugin name. The second parameter specifies the command name.

    php artisan create:command RainLab.Blog MyCommand

Commit message:

Add section for create:reportwidget command

console-scaffolding.md, after:

# Scaffolding commands

- [Scaffolding commands](#scaffolding-commands)
    - [Create a plugin](#scaffold-create-plugin)
    - [Create a component](#scaffold-create-component)
    - [Create a model](#scaffold-create-model)
    - [Create a back-end controller](#scaffold-create-controller)
    - [Create a form widget](#scaffold-create-formwidget)
    - [Create a report widget](#scaffold-create-reportwidget)
    - [Create a console command](#scaffold-create-command)

<a name="scaffolding-commands"></a>
## Scaffolding commands

Use the scaffolding commands to speed up the development process.

<a name="scaffold-create-plugin"></a>
### Create a plugin

The `create:plugin` command generates a plugin folder and basic files for the plugin. The parameter specifies the author and plugin name.

    php artisan create:plugin Acme.Blog

<a name="scaffold-create-component"></a>
### Create a component

The `create:component` command creates a new component class and the default component view. The first parameter specifies the author and plugin name. The second parameter specifies the component class name.

    php artisan create:component Acme.Blog Post

<a name="scaffold-create-model"></a>
### Create a model

The `create:model` command generates the files needed for a new model. The first parameter specifies the author and plugin name. The second parameter specifies the model class name.

    php artisan create:model Acme.Blog Post

<a name="scaffold-create-controller"></a>
### Create a back-end controller

The `create:controller` command generates a controller, configuration and view files. The first parameter specifies the author and plugin name. The second parameter specifies the controller class name.

    php artisan create:controller Acme.Blog Posts

<a name="scaffold-create-formwidget"></a>
### Create a form widget

The `create:formwidget` command generates a back-end form widget, view and basic asset files. The first parameter specifies the author and plugin name. The second parameter specifies the form widget class name.

    php artisan create:formwidget Acme.Blog CategorySelector
    
<a name="scaffold-create-reportwidget"></a>
### Create a report widget

The `create:reportwidget` command generates a back-end report widget, view and basic asset files. The first parameter specifies the author and plugin name. The second parameter specifies the report widget class name.

    php artisan create:reportwidget Acme.Blog TopPosts

<a name="scaffold-create-command"></a>
### Create a console command

The `create:command` command generates a [new console command](../console/development). The first parameter specifies the author and plugin name. The second parameter specifies the command name.

    php artisan create:command RainLab.Blog MyCommand
