database-structure.md, before:

# Table Structure

- [Updates files](#update-files)
- [Migration files](#migration-files)
- [Data seeding files](#data-seeding-files)

October provides a simple way of managing the database structure and contents with the database scripts (migrations and seed files). The database scripts can be provided by plugins.

<a name="update-files" class="anchor" href="#update-files"></a>
## Update files

Database tables and seed data is managed using a version information file `version.yaml` found in the **updates** subdirectory of a plugin directory. An example plugin updates folder:

    plugins/
      acme/
        blog/
          updates/                    <=== Updates folder
            version.yaml              <=== Version Information File
            create_posts_table.php    <=== Database scripts
            create_comments_table.php <=== Migration script
            some_seeding_file.php     <=== Seeding script
            some_upgrade_file.php     <=== Seeding script

The version information file defines the plugin version and refers to the migration and seeding files. All migration and seeding files should be associated with a plugin version. Example of the version.yaml file:

    1.0.1:
        - Added some upgrade file and some seeding
        - some_upgrade_file.php
        - some_seeding_file.php
    1.0.2:
        - Create blog post comments table
        - create_comments_table.php
    1.0.3: Bug fix update that uses no scripts
    1.0.4: Another fix
    1.0.5: 
        - Create blog settings table
        - create_blog_settings_table.php

> **Note:** For updates that refer to migration or seeding files, the first line is always the comment, then subsequent lines are script file names.

October executes updates when you run the `php artisan october:up` command in the command line in the application directory. When October is updated with the built-in Update feature in the back-end the updates are executed automatically.

<a name="migration-files" class="anchor" href="#migration-files"></a>
## Migration files

October migrations use the Laravel's [Schema Builder](http://laravel.com/docs/schema). The migration file should define a class that extends the `October\Rain\Database\Updates\Migration` class. The class should define two public methods - `up()` and `down()`.  The class name should match the script file name written in CamelCase. Inside the migration files the `Author\Plugin\Updates` [namespace](../plugin/registration#namespaces) should be used. An example of a structure file:

    namespace Acme\Blog\Updates;

    use Schema;
    use October\Rain\Database\Updates\Migration;

    class CreatePostsTable extends Migration
    {
        public function up()
        {
            Schema::create('october_blog_posts', function($table)
            {
                $table->engine = 'InnoDB';
                $table->increments('id');
                $table->string('title');
                $table->string('slug')->index();
                $table->text('excerpt')->nullable();
                $table->text('content');
                $table->timestamp('published_at')->nullable();
                $table->boolean('is_published')->default(false);
                $table->timestamps();
            });
        }

        public function down()
        {
            Schema::drop('october_blog_posts');
        }
    }

<a name="data-seeding-files" class="anchor" href="#data-seeding-files"></a>
## Data seeding files

Use the the data seeding files to add, update or remove records in the database when a plugin changes its version. The file should define a class that extends the `Seeder` class. The class should define the public method `run()`. The class name should match the script file name written in CamelCase. Inside the seeding files the `Author\Plugin\Updates` [namespace](../plugin/registration#namespaces) should be used. An example of a seeding file:

    namespace Acme\Users\Updates;

    use Seeder;
    use Acme\Users\Models\User;

    class SeedUsersTable extends Seeder
    {
        public function run()
        {
            $user = User::create([
                'email'                 => 'user@user.com',
                'login'                 => 'user',
                'password'              => 'user',
                'password_confirmation' => 'user',
                'first_name'            => 'Adam',
                'last_name'             => 'Person',
                'is_activated'          => true
            ]);
        }
    }

Commit message:

Update docs about update process and dependency definitions in plugins

database-structure.md, after:

# Table Structure

- [Updates files](#update-files)
- [Update process](#update-process)
- [Migration files](#migration-files)
- [Data seeding files](#data-seeding-files)

October provides a simple way of managing the database structure and contents with the database scripts (migrations and seed files). The database scripts can be provided by plugins.

<a name="update-files" class="anchor" href="#update-files"></a>
## Update files

Database tables and seed data is managed using a version information file `version.yaml` found in the **updates** subdirectory of a plugin directory. An example plugin updates folder:

    plugins/
      acme/
        blog/
          updates/                    <=== Updates folder
            version.yaml              <=== Version Information File
            create_posts_table.php    <=== Database scripts
            create_comments_table.php <=== Migration script
            some_seeding_file.php     <=== Seeding script
            some_upgrade_file.php     <=== Seeding script

The version information file defines the plugin version and refers to the migration and seeding files. All migration and seeding files should be associated with a plugin version. Example of the version.yaml file:

    1.0.1:
        - Added some upgrade file and some seeding
        - some_upgrade_file.php
        - some_seeding_file.php
    1.0.2:
        - Create blog post comments table
        - create_comments_table.php
    1.0.3: Bug fix update that uses no scripts
    1.0.4: Another fix
    1.0.5: 
        - Create blog settings table
        - create_blog_settings_table.php

For updates that refer to migration or seeding files, the first line is always the comment, then subsequent lines are script file names.

> **Note:** The plugin [initialization process](../plugin/registration#routing-initialization) is disabled during the update process, this should be a consideration in migration and seeding scripts.

<a name="update-process" class="anchor" href="#update-process"></a>
## Update process

Any given [update file](#update-files) will only be applied once after a successful execution. October executes the update process automatically when any of the following occurs:

1. When an administrator signs in to the back-end.

2. When the system is updated with the built-in Update feature in the back-end.

3. When the console command `php artisan october:up` is called in the command line from the application directory.

Updates are applied in a specific order, based on the [defined dependencies in the plugin registration file](../plugin/registration#dependency-definitions). Plugins that are dependant will not be updated until all their dependencies have been updated first.

<a name="migration-files" class="anchor" href="#migration-files"></a>
## Migration files

October migrations use the Laravel's [Schema Builder](http://laravel.com/docs/schema). The migration file should define a class that extends the `October\Rain\Database\Updates\Migration` class. The class should define two public methods - `up()` and `down()`.  The class name should match the script file name written in CamelCase. Inside the migration files the `Author\Plugin\Updates` [namespace](../plugin/registration#namespaces) should be used. An example of a structure file:

    namespace Acme\Blog\Updates;

    use Schema;
    use October\Rain\Database\Updates\Migration;

    class CreatePostsTable extends Migration
    {
        public function up()
        {
            Schema::create('october_blog_posts', function($table)
            {
                $table->engine = 'InnoDB';
                $table->increments('id');
                $table->string('title');
                $table->string('slug')->index();
                $table->text('excerpt')->nullable();
                $table->text('content');
                $table->timestamp('published_at')->nullable();
                $table->boolean('is_published')->default(false);
                $table->timestamps();
            });
        }

        public function down()
        {
            Schema::drop('october_blog_posts');
        }
    }

<a name="data-seeding-files" class="anchor" href="#data-seeding-files"></a>
## Data seeding files

Use the the data seeding files to add, update or remove records in the database when a plugin changes its version. The file should define a class that extends the `Seeder` class. The class should define the public method `run()`. The class name should match the script file name written in CamelCase. Inside the seeding files the `Author\Plugin\Updates` [namespace](../plugin/registration#namespaces) should be used. An example of a seeding file:

    namespace Acme\Users\Updates;

    use Seeder;
    use Acme\Users\Models\User;

    class SeedUsersTable extends Seeder
    {
        public function run()
        {
            $user = User::create([
                'email'                 => 'user@user.com',
                'login'                 => 'user',
                'password'              => 'user',
                'password_confirmation' => 'user',
                'first_name'            => 'Adam',
                'last_name'             => 'Person',
                'is_activated'          => true
            ]);
        }
    }
