services-resizer.md, before:

# Image Resizing

- [Introduction](#introduction)
    - [Resize Parameters](#resize-parameters)
    - [Available Modes](#available-modes)
<!-- - [Resize sources](#resize-sources) -->

<a name="introduction"></a>
## Introduction

October CMS ships with an image resizer that lets you change the shape and size of supported images. To resize an image, use the `open` method on the `Resizer` facade to target a file path.

    $image = Resizer::open('path/to/image.jpg');

You may also pass an uploaded file from the [page request input](../services/request-input).

    $image = Resizer::open(Input::file('field_name'));

To resize the image, call the `resize` method on the object to perform the resize. The first argument is the image width, the second argument is the image height and the third argument is an array of [resize parameters](#resize-parameters) options.

    $image->resize(800, 600, ['mode' => 'crop']);

The width and height arguments are also optional, for example, to use the existing width and only adjust the height, pass the second argument as `null`. This value is then calculated using original image ratio (automatic proportional scaling) based on the `mode` option.

    $image->resize(800, null, [...]);

Finally, use the `save` method to save the resized image to a new location.

    $image->save('path/to/new/file.jpg');

<a name="resize-parameters"></a>
## Resize Parameters

The following elements are supported in the options array are supported:

Key | Description | Default | Options
--- | --- | --- | ---
`mode` | How the image should be fitted to dimensions | `auto` | `exact`, `portrait`, `landscape`, `auto`, `fit`, or `crop`
`offset` | Offset the crop of the resized image | `[0,0]` | [left, top]
`quality` | Quality of the resized image | `90` | `0-100`
`sharpen` | Amount to sharpen the image | `0` | `0-100`

<a name="available-modes"></a>
### Available Modes

The `mode` option allows you to specify how the image should be resized. The available modes are as follows:

Mode | Description
--- | ---
`auto` | Automatically choose between `portrait` and `landscape` based on the image's orientation
`exact` | Resize to the exact dimensions given, without preserving aspect ratio
`portrait` | Resize to the given height and adapt the width to preserve aspect ratio
`landscape` | Resize to the given width and adapt the height to preserve aspect ratio
`crop` | Crop to the given dimensions after fitting as much of the image as possible inside those
`fit` | Fit the image inside the given maximal dimensions, keeping the aspect ratio

<!--
<a name="resize-sources"></a>
## Resize sources

The available sources that images can be resized from are as follows:

- Plugins
- Themes
- Media Library
- Uploads Directory
- Models that extend the `\October\Rain\Database\Attach\File` model

Available sources can be extended by listening to the [`system.resizer.getAvailableSources` event](../api/system/resizer/getavailablesources)
-->

Commit message:

Use from instead of source
Artisan won't let us use source/version (version is reserved), so from/want can be the options instead

- from source
- want version

services-resizer.md, after:

# Image Resizing

- [Introduction](#introduction)
    - [Resize Parameters](#resize-parameters)
    - [Available Modes](#available-modes)
<!-- - [Resize sources](#resize-sources) -->

<a name="introduction"></a>
## Introduction

October CMS ships with an image resizer that lets you change the shape and size of supported images. To resize an image, use the `open` method on the `Resizer` facade to target a file path.

    $image = Resizer::open('path/to/image.jpg');

You may also pass an uploaded file from the [page request input](../services/request-input).

    $image = Resizer::open(Input::file('field_name'));

To resize the image, call the `resize` method on the object to perform the resize. The first argument is the image width, the second argument is the image height and the third argument is an array of [resize parameters](#resize-parameters) options.

    $image->resize(800, 600, ['mode' => 'crop']);

The width and height arguments are also optional, for example, to use the existing width and only adjust the height, pass the second argument as `null`. This value is then calculated using original image ratio (automatic proportional scaling) based on the `mode` option.

    $image->resize(800, null, [...]);

Finally, use the `save` method to save the resized image to a new location.

    $image->save('path/to/new/file.jpg');

> **Note**: There is also a `|resize` [markup filter](../markup/filter-resize) that can be used for resizing images in your themes.

<a name="resize-parameters"></a>
### Resize Parameters

The following elements are supported in the options array are supported:

Key | Description | Default | Options
--- | --- | --- | ---
`mode` | How the image should be fitted to dimensions | `auto` | `exact`, `portrait`, `landscape`, `auto`, `fit`, or `crop`
`offset` | Offset the crop of the resized image | `[0,0]` | [left, top]
`quality` | Quality of the resized image | `90` | `0-100`
`sharpen` | Amount to sharpen the image | `0` | `0-100`

<a name="available-modes"></a>
### Available Modes

The `mode` option allows you to specify how the image should be resized. The available modes are as follows:

Mode | Description
--- | ---
`auto` | Automatically choose between `portrait` and `landscape` based on the image's orientation
`exact` | Resize to the exact dimensions given, without preserving aspect ratio
`portrait` | Resize to the given height and adapt the width to preserve aspect ratio
`landscape` | Resize to the given width and adapt the height to preserve aspect ratio
`crop` | Crop to the given dimensions after fitting as much of the image as possible inside those
`fit` | Fit the image inside the given maximal dimensions, keeping the aspect ratio
