---
subtitle: Learn how to set up services for sending mail.
---
# Mail Configuration

October CMS provides drivers for SMTP, Mailgun, SparkPost, Amazon SES and `sendmail`, allowing you to quickly get started sending mail through a local or cloud based service of your choice.

There are two ways to configure mail services, either using the admin panel via **Settings → Mail Settings** or by updating the default configuration values. In these examples we will update the file-based configuration values.

::: tip
​The mail settings screen in the admin panel will override the settings provided by the file-based configuration. Clicking the **Reset to Default** button will update the mail settings to the latest. If you do not click **Save** on this form, then the settings will continue to be sourced from the configuration files.
:::

## Driver Prerequisites

In most cases you can use the SMTP driver and it will be supported by most mailing providers. However, using the API-based drivers are often a simpler and faster approach.

### Mailgun driver

To use the Mailgun driver, install Symfony's Mailgun Mailer transport via Composer.

```bash
composer require symfony/mailgun-mailer symfony/http-client
```

Next, set the `driver` option in your `config/mail.php` configuration file to `mailgun`. Next, verify that your `config/services.php` configuration file contains the following options:

```php
'mailgun' => [
    'domain' => 'your-mailgun-domain',
    'secret' => 'your-mailgun-key',
    'endpoint' => 'api.mailgun.net', // api.eu.mailgun.net for EU
],
```

### Postmark Driver

To use the Postmark driver, install Symfony's Postmark Mailer transport via Composer.

```bash
composer require symfony/postmark-mailer symfony/http-client
```

Next, set the `default` option in your application's `config/mail.php` configuration file to postmark. After configuring your application's default mailer, verify that your `config/services.php` configuration file contains the following.

```php
'postmark' => [
    'token' => env('POSTMARK_TOKEN'),
],
```

### SES driver

To use the Amazon SES driver you must first install the Amazon AWS SDK for PHP. You may install this library via the Composer package manager.

```bash
composer require aws/aws-sdk-php
```

Next, set the `driver` option in your `config/mail.php` configuration file to `ses`. Then, verify that your `config/services.php` configuration file contains the following options:

```php
'ses' => [
    'key' => 'your-ses-key',
    'secret' => 'your-ses-secret',
    'region' => 'ses-region',  // e.g. us-east-1
],
```

## Mail & Local Development

When developing an application that sends e-mail, you probably don't want to actually send e-mails to live e-mail addresses. There are several ways to "disable" the actual sending of e-mail messages.

### Log Driver

One solution is to use the `log` mail driver during local development. This driver will write all e-mail messages to your log files for inspection. For more information on configuring your application per environment, check out the [configuration documentation](../setup/configuration.md).

### Universal To

Another solution is to set a universal recipient of all e-mails sent by the framework. This way, all the emails generated by your application will be sent to a specific address, instead of the address actually specified when sending the message. This can be done via the `to` option in your `config/mail.php` configuration file:

```php
'to' => [
    'address' => 'dev@example.tld',
    'name' => 'Dev Example'
],
```

### Pretend Mail Mode

You can dynamically disable sending mail using the `Mail::pretend` method. When the mailer is in pretend mode, messages will be written to your application's log files instead of being sent to the recipient.

```php
Mail::pretend();
```

#### See Also

::: also
* [Sending Mail](../extend/system/sending-mail.md)
* [SparkPost Plugin](https://github.com/rainlab/sparkpost-plugin)
:::
