3.x/cms/ajax/introduction.md, before:

---
subtitle: A simple AJAX framework that ships with October CMS.
---
# Introduction

October CMS includes an AJAX framework that brings a full suite of capabilities, allowing you to load data from the server without refreshing the browser. The same library can be used in CMS themes and anywhere in the admin panel.

The AJAX framework comes in two flavors, you may either use [the JavaScript API](./javascript-api.md) or [the data attributes API](./attributes-api.md). The data attributes API doesn't require any JavaScript knowledge to use AJAX with October CMS.

## Including the Framework

::: aside
The AJAX framework is optional in your CMS theme and you can always include your preferred framework instead.
:::

When working with your [CMS theme](../../cms/themes/themes.md), using the library is as simple as including it with a Twig tag. Place the `{% framework %}` tag anywhere inside your page or layout. This adds a reference to the October CMS frontend JavaScript library, for example.

```twig
{% framework %}
```

The `{% framework %}` tag supports the optional **extras** and **turbo** parameters. If these parameter are specified, the tag adds StyleSheet and JavaScript files for [extra features](./extras.md), including form validation, loading indicators and [turbo-charged routing](./turbo-router.md).

```twig
{% framework extras turbo %}
```

## How AJAX Requests Work

A page can issue an AJAX request either prompted by data attributes or by using JavaScript. Each request invokes an **event handler** -- also called an [AJAX handler](./handlers.md) -- on the server and can update page elements using partials. AJAX requests work best with forms, since the form data is automatically sent to the server. Here is request workflow:

1. The client browser issues an AJAX request by providing the handler name and other optional parameters.
2. The server finds the [AJAX handler](./handlers.md) and executes it.
3. The handler executes the required business logic and updates the environment by injecting page variables.
4. The server [renders partials](./update-partials.md) requested by the client with the `update` option.
5. The server sends the response, containing the rendered partials markup.
6. The client-side framework updates page elements with the partials data received from the server.

## Usage Example

Below is a simple example that uses the data attributes API to define an AJAX enabled form. The form will issue an AJAX request to the **onTest** handler and requests that the result container be updated with the **mypartial** partial markup.

::: tip
The form data for `value1` and `value2` are automatically sent with the AJAX request.

```html
<!-- AJAX enabled form -->
<form data-request="onTest" data-request-update="{ mypartial: '#myDiv' }">

    <!-- Input two values -->
    <input name="value1"> + <input name="value2">

    <!-- Action button -->
    <button type="submit">Calculate</button>

</form>

<!-- Result container -->
<div id="myDiv"></div>
```
:::

The **mypartial** partial contains markup that reads the `result` variable.

```twig
<p>The answer is {{ result }}</p>
```

The **onTest** handler method accessed the form data using the `input` [helper method](../../extend/services/helpers.md) and the result is passed to the `result` page variable.

```php
function onTest()
{
    $this->page['result'] = input('value1') + input('value2');
}
```

The example could be read like this: "When the form is submitted, issue an AJAX request to the **onTest** handler. When the handler finishes, render the **mypartial** partial and inject its contents to the **#myDiv** element."

#### See Also

::: also
* [JavaScript API](./javascript-api.md)
* [Data Attributes API](./attributes-api.md)
* [Extra Framework Features](./extras.md)
:::

Commit message:

Adds dedicated section for AJAX extras

3.x/cms/ajax/introduction.md, after:

---
subtitle: A simple AJAX framework that ships with October CMS.
---
# Introduction

October CMS includes an AJAX framework that brings a full suite of capabilities, allowing you to load data from the server without refreshing the browser. The same library can be used in CMS themes and anywhere in the admin panel.

The AJAX framework comes in two flavors, you may either use [the JavaScript API](./javascript-api.md) or [the data attributes API](./attributes-api.md). The data attributes API doesn't require any JavaScript knowledge to use AJAX with October CMS.

## Including the Framework

::: aside
The AJAX framework is optional in your CMS theme and you can always include your preferred framework instead.
:::

When working with your [CMS theme](../../cms/themes/themes.md), using the library is as simple as including it with a Twig tag. Place the `{% framework %}` tag anywhere inside your page or layout. This adds a reference to the October CMS frontend JavaScript library, for example.

```twig
{% framework %}
```

### Extra Features

The `{% framework %}` tag supports an optional **extras** parameter that includes additional StyleSheet and JavaScript files, for extra features including [form validation](../features/validation.md), [loading indicators](../features/loaders.md), and [flash messages](../features/flash-messages.md).

```twig
{% framework extras %}
```

You may also include the **turbo** parameter to enable [turbo-charged routing](./turbo-router.md) on every page.

```twig
{% framework extras turbo %}
```

## How AJAX Requests Work

A page can issue an AJAX request either prompted by data attributes or by using JavaScript. Each request invokes an **event handler** -- also called an [AJAX handler](./handlers.md) -- on the server and can update page elements using partials. AJAX requests work best with forms, since the form data is automatically sent to the server. Here is request workflow:

1. The client browser issues an AJAX request by providing the handler name and other optional parameters.
2. The server finds the [AJAX handler](./handlers.md) and executes it.
3. The handler executes the required business logic and updates the environment by injecting page variables.
4. The server [renders partials](./update-partials.md) requested by the client with the `update` option.
5. The server sends the response, containing the rendered partials markup.
6. The client-side framework updates page elements with the partials data received from the server.

## Usage Example

Below is a simple example that uses the data attributes API to define an AJAX enabled form. The form will issue an AJAX request to the **onTest** handler and requests that the result container be updated with the **mypartial** partial markup.

::: tip
The form data for `value1` and `value2` are automatically sent with the AJAX request.

```html
<!-- AJAX enabled form -->
<form data-request="onTest" data-request-update="{ mypartial: '#myDiv' }">

    <!-- Input two values -->
    <input name="value1"> + <input name="value2">

    <!-- Action button -->
    <button type="submit">Calculate</button>

</form>

<!-- Result container -->
<div id="myDiv"></div>
```
:::

The **mypartial** partial contains markup that reads the `result` variable.

```twig
<p>The answer is {{ result }}</p>
```

The **onTest** handler method accessed the form data using the `input` [helper method](../../extend/services/helpers.md) and the result is passed to the `result` page variable.

```php
function onTest()
{
    $this->page['result'] = input('value1') + input('value2');
}
```

The example could be read like this: "When the form is submitted, issue an AJAX request to the **onTest** handler. When the handler finishes, render the **mypartial** partial and inject its contents to the **#myDiv** element."

#### See Also

::: also
* [JavaScript API](./javascript-api.md)
* [Data Attributes API](./attributes-api.md)
* [Extra Framework Features](./extras.md)
:::
