3.x/cms/ajax/turbo.md, before:

---
subtitle: Learn how links are routed using the AJAX framework.
---
# Turbo Routing

A concept included with the [AJAX framework extra features](./extras.md) is turbo routing as an implementation of PJAX (push state and AJAX). This gives performance benefits of a single page application without the added complexity of a client-side framework. When you click a link, the page is automatically swapped client-side without the cost of a full page load.

## Disable Routing

To disable PJAX routing on a specific page, you may trigger a full reload by including the `turbo-visit-control` meta tag in the head section of the page. This will disable the feature for incoming requests only.

```html
<head>
    <meta name="turbo-visit-control" content="reload" />
</head>
```

To completely disable PJAX in your website, set the value to `disable`. This will disable the feature for incoming and outgoing requests.

```html
<meta name="turbo-visit-control" content="disable" />
```

## Disable for Specific Links

By default, all internal HTML links will be routed using PJAX, but you can disable this by marking links or their parent container with `data-turbo="false"`. Links that are disabled are handled normally by the browser.

```html
<a href="/" data-turbo="false">Disabled</a>
```

You may re-enable when an ancestor has disabled:

```html
<div data-turbo="false">
    <a href="/" data-turbo="true">Enabled</a>
</div>
```

## Persisting Page Elements

In some cases you may want to include static elements on the page, these are elements that should not be refreshed when the page updates. Use the `data-turbo-permanent` attribute on the parent element. The element must also supply and `id` attribute so the original page can be matched with the new page, including event listeners.

```html
<div id="main-navigation" data-turbo-permanent>...</div>
```

## Setting a Root Path

By default, PJAX links are used for all links within the same domain name and a visit to any other URL will fallback to a full page load. In some cases, your application may live in a subdirectory and the links should only apply to the root path.

For example, if you website lives in `/app` and you don't want the links to apply to a different site in `/docs` then you may restrict the links to a root path. You may set the root path by including the `turbo-root` meta tag in the page's head section.

```html
<head>
    <meta name="turbo-root" content="/app">
</head>
```

## Global Events

The AJAX framework triggers several events during the navigation lifecycle and page responses. The events are usually triggered on the `document` object with details available on the `event.detail` property.

Event | Description
------------- | -------------
**page:click** | triggered when a turbo-routed link is clicked.
**page:before-visit** | triggered before visiting a location, except when navigating using browser history.
**page:visit** | triggered after a clicked visit starts.
**page:request-start** | triggered before the request for a page.
**page:request-end** | triggered after the page request ends.
**page:before-cache** | triggered before a page is cached.
**page:before-render** | triggered before the page content is rendered.
**page:render** | triggered after the page is rendered. This is fired twice, once from cache and once again after requesting the new page content.
**page:load** | triggered once after the initial page load and again every time a page is visited.
**page:after-load** | triggered after the page scripts are loaded dynamically. This is not called on the initial page load.

## Usage Examples

The following JavaScript will run every time a page loads.

```js
document.addEventListener('page:load', function() {
    // ...
});
```

Commit message:

Adds note about programmatically visiting

3.x/cms/ajax/turbo.md, after:

---
subtitle: Learn how links are routed using the AJAX framework.
---
# Turbo Routing

A concept included with the [AJAX framework extra features](./extras.md) is turbo routing as an implementation of PJAX (push state and AJAX). This gives performance benefits of a single page application without the added complexity of a client-side framework.  When you click a link, the page is automatically swapped client-side without the cost of a full page load. You may programmatically visit a link with the following:

```js
oc.AjaxTurbo.visit(location);
```

## Disable Routing

To disable PJAX routing on a specific page, you may trigger a full reload by including the `turbo-visit-control` meta tag in the head section of the page. This will disable the feature for incoming requests only.

```html
<head>
    <meta name="turbo-visit-control" content="reload" />
</head>
```

To completely disable PJAX in your website, set the value to `disable`. This will disable the feature for incoming and outgoing requests.

```html
<meta name="turbo-visit-control" content="disable" />
```

## Disable for Specific Links

By default, all internal HTML links will be routed using PJAX, but you can disable this by marking links or their parent container with `data-turbo="false"`. Links that are disabled are handled normally by the browser.

```html
<a href="/" data-turbo="false">Disabled</a>
```

You may re-enable when an ancestor has disabled:

```html
<div data-turbo="false">
    <a href="/" data-turbo="true">Enabled</a>
</div>
```

## Persisting Page Elements

In some cases you may want to include static elements on the page, these are elements that should not be refreshed when the page updates. Use the `data-turbo-permanent` attribute on the parent element. The element must also supply and `id` attribute so the original page can be matched with the new page, including event listeners.

```html
<div id="main-navigation" data-turbo-permanent>...</div>
```

## Setting a Root Path

By default, PJAX links are used for all links within the same domain name and a visit to any other URL will fallback to a full page load. In some cases, your application may live in a subdirectory and the links should only apply to the root path.

For example, if you website lives in `/app` and you don't want the links to apply to a different site in `/docs` then you may restrict the links to a root path. You may set the root path by including the `turbo-root` meta tag in the page's head section.

```html
<head>
    <meta name="turbo-root" content="/app">
</head>
```

## Global Events

The AJAX framework triggers several events during the navigation lifecycle and page responses. The events are usually triggered on the `document` object with details available on the `event.detail` property.

Event | Description
------------- | -------------
**page:click** | triggered when a turbo-routed link is clicked.
**page:before-visit** | triggered before visiting a location, except when navigating using browser history.
**page:visit** | triggered after a clicked visit starts.
**page:request-start** | triggered before the request for a page.
**page:request-end** | triggered after the page request ends.
**page:before-cache** | triggered before a page is cached.
**page:before-render** | triggered before the page content is rendered.
**page:render** | triggered after the page is rendered. This is fired twice, once from cache and once again after requesting the new page content.
**page:load** | triggered once after the initial page load and again every time a page is visited.
**page:after-load** | triggered after the page scripts are loaded dynamically. This is not called on the initial page load.

## Usage Examples

The following JavaScript will run every time a page loads.

```js
document.addEventListener('page:load', function() {
    // ...
});
```
