3.x/extend/services/session.md, before:

# Session

Since HTTP driven applications are stateless, sessions provide a way to store information about the user across requests. October CMS ships with a variety of session interfaces available for use through a unified API. Support for popular services such as [Memcached](http://memcached.org), [Redis](https://redis.io), and databases is included out of the box.

## Configuration

The session configuration is stored in `config/session.php`. Be sure to review the documented options available to you in this file.

- `file` - sessions are stored in `storage/framework/sessions`.
- `cookie` - sessions are stored in secure, encrypted cookies.
- `database` - sessions are stored in a database used by your application.
- `memcached` / `redis` - sessions are stored in one of these fast, cache based stores.
- `array` - sessions are stored in a simple PHP array and will not be persisted across requests.

By default, October CMS is configured to use the `file` session driver, which will work well for the majority of applications. The `array` driver is typically used for running unit tests to prevent session data from persisting.

## Storing Data

Using the `Session` facade you may call a variety of functions to interact with the underlying data. For example, the `put` method stores a new piece of data in the session.

```php
Session::put('key', 'value');
```

::: warning
October CMS uses the `flash` session key internally, so you should avoid using this as a key name.
:::

The `push` method may be used to push a new value onto a session value that is an array. For example, if the `user.teams` key contains an array of team names, you may push a new value onto the array like so:

```php
Session::push('user.teams', 'developers');
```

## Retrieving Data

When you retrieve a value from the session, you may also pass a default value as the second argument to the `get` method. This default value will be returned if the specified key does not exist in the session. If you pass a `Closure` as the default value to the `get` method, the `Closure` will be executed and its result returned.

```php
$value = Session::get('key');

$value = Session::get('key', 'default');

$value = Session::get('key', function() { return 'default'; });
```

If you would like to retrieve all data from the session, you may use the `all` method.

```php
$data = Session::all();
```

The `has` method may be used to check if an item exists in the session. This method will return `true` if the item exists.

```php
if (Session::has('users')) {
    //
}
```

## Deleting Data

The `pull` method will retrieve and delete an item from the session.

```php
$value = Session::pull('key', 'default');
```

The `forget` method will remove a piece of data from the session. If you would like to remove all data from the session, you may use the `flush` method.

```php
Session::forget('key');

Session::flush();
```

## Regenerating the Session Identifier

If you need to regenerate the session ID, you may use the `regenerate` method:

```php
Session::regenerate();
```

## Flash Data

Sometimes you may wish to store items in the session only for the next request. You may do so using the `Session::flash` method. Data stored in the session using this method will only be available during the subsequent HTTP request, and then will be deleted. Flash data is primarily useful for short-lived status messages:

```php
Session::flash('key', 'value');
```

If you need to keep your flash data around for even more requests, you may use the `reflash` method, which will keep all of the flash data around for an additional request. If you only need to keep specific flash data around, you may use the `keep` method:

```php
Session::reflash();

Session::keep(['username', 'email']);
```

Commit message:

Adds docs for Session::invalidate

3.x/extend/services/session.md, after:

# Session

Since HTTP driven applications are stateless, sessions provide a way to store information about the user across requests. October CMS ships with a variety of session interfaces available for use through a unified API. Support for popular services such as [Memcached](http://memcached.org), [Redis](https://redis.io), and databases is included out of the box.

## Configuration

The session configuration is stored in `config/session.php`. Be sure to review the documented options available to you in this file.

- `file` - sessions are stored in `storage/framework/sessions`.
- `cookie` - sessions are stored in secure, encrypted cookies.
- `database` - sessions are stored in a database used by your application.
- `memcached` / `redis` - sessions are stored in one of these fast, cache based stores.
- `array` - sessions are stored in a simple PHP array and will not be persisted across requests.

By default, October CMS is configured to use the `file` session driver, which will work well for the majority of applications. The `array` driver is typically used for running unit tests to prevent session data from persisting.

## Storing Data

Using the `Session` facade you may call a variety of functions to interact with the underlying data. For example, the `put` method stores a new piece of data in the session.

```php
Session::put('key', 'value');
```

::: warning
October CMS uses the `flash` session key internally, so you should avoid using this as a key name.
:::

The `push` method may be used to push a new value onto a session value that is an array. For example, if the `user.teams` key contains an array of team names, you may push a new value onto the array like so:

```php
Session::push('user.teams', 'developers');
```

## Retrieving Data

When you retrieve a value from the session, you may also pass a default value as the second argument to the `get` method. This default value will be returned if the specified key does not exist in the session. If you pass a `Closure` as the default value to the `get` method, the `Closure` will be executed and its result returned.

```php
$value = Session::get('key');

$value = Session::get('key', 'default');

$value = Session::get('key', function() { return 'default'; });
```

If you would like to retrieve all data from the session, you may use the `all` method.

```php
$data = Session::all();
```

The `has` method may be used to check if an item exists in the session. This method will return `true` if the item exists.

```php
if (Session::has('users')) {
    //
}
```

## Deleting Data

The `pull` method will retrieve and delete an item from the session.

```php
$value = Session::pull('key', 'default');
```

The `forget` method will remove a piece of data from the session. If you would like to remove all data from the session, you may use the `flush` method.

```php
Session::forget('key');

Session::flush();
```

## Regenerating the Session

If you need to regenerate the session ID, you may use the `regenerate` method.

```php
Session::regenerate();
```

To regenerate the session ID and remove all data from the session in a single statement, you may use the `invalidate` method.

```php
Session::invalidate();
```

## Flash Data

Sometimes you may wish to store items in the session only for the next request. You may do so using the `Session::flash` method. Data stored in the session using this method will only be available during the subsequent HTTP request, and then will be deleted. Flash data is primarily useful for short-lived status messages.

```php
Session::flash('key', 'value');
```

If you need to keep your flash data around for even more requests, you may use the `reflash` method, which will keep all of the flash data around for an additional request. If you only need to keep specific flash data around, you may use the `keep` method.

```php
Session::reflash();

Session::keep(['username', 'email']);
```

#### See Also

::: also
* [Laravel HTTP Session](https://laravel.com/docs/9.x/session)
:::
